# Fitness Adviser
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/-cHWoCDB4lg
#### Description:
This project is a fitness adviser for people who have just started going to gym with a little knowledge in sensible training plan. I have created this website using flask framework with python from scratch, because i did not fully understand all flask components in lecturecast so i taught myself how to do it instead of just using the prepared code. I have used sql-alchemy database to store the information about users and for the front-end I used HTML,CSS and JavaScript languages.

In this website users can explore different ways they could train depending on their BMI and personal goals, they may either choose to lose fat, bulk, or gain lean muscle. This webiste gives free access(currently) to weekly 3-day programmes for Fat Loss and Muscle Gain, users can register with their nickname and password, then log in using the form and access general tips, and an overview of what type of training they would have to perform to achieve their goals. There are flash messages almost every time user attempts any action to navigate him across the website and confirm whether something was actually processed and submitted. The attractive animations and transitions make the website more appealing to the potential user so that adding more functionality would make it even better. In the homepage, the menu bar helps users to automatically shift to the section they are interested in without having to scroll manually which is a convenient tool i have learned while studying CSS.

I have watched many YouTube videos about Flask which gave me a strong foundation additionally to the CS50 lecture on FLask. After researching and gaining experience i was confident about working with Flask so i have started writing the code for the Fitness Adviser. In terms of the code, the log in and register form were created using the flask_wtf, wtforms and wtforms.validators libraries which facilitated creation and control of input from the user, the bcrypt library allowed the password to be encrypted and not seen to anyone while the user is typing it and flask_sqlalchemy allowed creation of the database which stored users information such as their name and their passwords. The front end was coded mainly using CSS and HTML. Javascript was used during creation of the BMI form which was using mathematical model and the image slider in the programmes file which had both slider tracker and slider buttons to fully control the image lists. The Contact Form, also done with assistance of FLaskForm allowed users to input their message which was sent to the csv file called form_data.csv so that I can confirm it was sent and read the user's message. The sliding layers on the images in the homepage were created using CSS when i learned about animations and transitions which really boosted my understanding of this language.

There were some difficulties which i bumped into while creating this Fitness Adviser. For example, i tried to use FlaskMail to create a mailing system which was the part of the Contact Form in order to send enquiries from the website straight to my personal Google account. However, Gmail turned down the less secure email system feature which disabled me from using google mail as smtp and I did not want to use any other mails because I simply did not have an account there. Another probable difficulty is payment system because i had no idea how to implement it using Flask and I did not want to use virtually created money as there would be no difference from allowing the membership for free. But it is something which i still have to work on!
Overall i think that this website is a good start for me to continue making some web based projects using maybe other frameworks or even languages.

The future prognosis for this project is to develop and implement a money transaction system so that users can actually purchase the membership for real money. Also expanding the membership with more information and tools like matching BMI to the programme, or introducing ML model in order to run through the list of exercises in the database and compare it to the information about the user to actually tailor the most suitable programme for him. And hopefully, making the website publically available when it is polished to perfection! 